{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Agrostis\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Agraulus\i0{} P. Beauv., \i{}Agrestis\i0{} Bub., \i{}Anomalotis\i0{} Steud., \i{}Bromidium\i0{} Nees, \i{}Candollea\i0{} Steud., \i{}Chaetotropis\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Decandolea\i0{} Batard, \i{}Didymochaeta\i0{} Steud., \i{}Lachnagrostis\i0{} Trin., \i{}Neoschischkinia\i0{} Tsvelev, \i{}Notonema\i0{} Raf., \i{}Pentatherum\i0{} Nabelek, \i{}Podagrostis\i0{} (Griseb.) Scribn., \i{}Senisetum\i0{} Koidz., \i{}Trichodium\i0{} Michaux, \i{}Vilfa\i0{} Adans.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culms mostly (3–)5–100 cm high; herbaceous; unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear; 0.2–10 mm wide. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence paniculate; open, or contracted (e.g., \i{}Bromidium\i0{}); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} 0.8–4 mm long; compressed laterally; \b\i{}disarticulating above the glumes\i0\b0{}. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret, or terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present (the hairs less than 0.5 mm long), or absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; more or less equal; \b\i{}long relative to the adjacent lemmas\i0\b0{}; awnless; carinate, or non-carinate. Upper glume 1 nerved. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}with female-fertile florets only\i0\b0{}. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}entire to incised (usually truncate or emarginate, sometimes toothed via excurrent veins)\i0\b0{}; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1, or 3 (\i{}Bromidium\i0{}), or 5 (rarely); dorsal; geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma to about as long as the body of the lemma, or much longer than the body of the lemma (rarely). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}non-carinate\i0\b0{}; without a germination flap; 3–5 nerved. Palea nearly always present; relatively long, or conspicuous but relatively short, or very reduced. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}short\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Pooideae; Poodae; Aveneae. About 220 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
