{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Andropogon\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Anatherum\i0{} P. Beauv., \i{}Arthrostachys\i0{} Desv., \i{}Arthrolophis\i0{} (Trin.) Chiov., \i{}Dimeiostemon\i0{} Raf., \i{}Eriopodium\i0{} Hochst., \i{}Heterochloa\i0{} Desv., \i{}Homoeatherum\i0{} Nees, \i{}Leptopogon\i0{} Roberty
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culms 8–250(–430) cm high; herbaceous; branched above, or unbranched above. Leaf blades linear; pseudopetiolate, or not pseudopetiolate. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane to a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence of spicate main branches, or paniculate (usually with paired or digitate ‘racemes’, these often spatheate and aggregated into false panicles); a complex of ‘partial inflorescences’ and intervening foliar organs (often), or not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. \b\i{}Spikelet-bearing axes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}disarticulating\i0\b0{}; disarticulating at the joints. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} paired; \b\i{}consistently in ‘long-and-short’ combinations\i0\b0{}; in pedicellate/sessile combinations. Pedicels of the ‘pedicellate’ spikelets free of the rachis. The ‘shorter’ spikelets hermaphrodite. The ‘longer’ spikelets male-only, or sterile (sometimes reduced to their pedicels).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-sterile spikelets\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}The pedicelled spikelets male or barren, usually awnless, occasionally suppressed\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} compressed laterally, or not noticeably compressed, or compressed dorsiventrally; \b\i{}falling with the glumes\i0\b0{}. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal; long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awned, or awnless (G\sub{}2\nosupersub{} sometimes aristate). Upper glume 1–3 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1; sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas incised (usually bifid); awned. Awns 1; from a sinus; geniculate; about as long as the body of the lemma to much longer than the body of the lemma. Lemmas non-carinate; 1–3 nerved. Palea present; very reduced (hyaline). \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present (tiny); fleshy; ciliate, or glabrous. Stamens 1–3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NADP–ME (3 species); XyMS–. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Panicoideae; Andropogonodae; Andropogoneae. About 100 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Cape.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
