{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Bambusa\i0{} Schreber\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Arundarbor\i0{} Kuntze, \i{}Bonia\i0{} Balansa, \i{}Criciuma\i0{} Soderstrom & Londoño, \i{}Dendrocalamopsis\i0{} (Chia & Fung) Keng f., \i{}Eremocaulon\i0{} Soderstrom & Londoño, \i{}Guadua\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Ischurochloa\i0{} Büse, \i{}Leleba\i0{} Nakai, \i{}Lingnania\i0{} McClure, \i{}Tetragonocalamus\i0{} Nakai – cf. Clayton and Renvoize (1986). Soderstrom and Ellis (1987) refer \i{}Criciuma\i0{}, \i{}Eremocaulon\i0{} and \i{}Guadua\i0{} to their subtribe Guaduinae, along with \i{}Olmeca\i0{}, and place \i{}Tetragonocalamus\i0{} in the Arundinariinae, but revised generic descriptions adequate for the present purpose are not available
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. \b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} (200–)500–3500 cm high; \b\i{}woody and persistent\i0\b0{}; branched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades pseudopetiolate. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane to a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}of pseudospikelets, these solitary or in tufts, fascicles or capitula on leafless branches\i0\b0{}; open; \b\i{}a complex of ‘partial inflorescences’ and intervening foliar organs\i0\b0{}. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} 10–80 mm long; \b\i{}compressed laterally to not noticeably compressed\i0\b0{}; disarticulating above the glumes; disarticulating between the florets. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate. Upper glume 7–18 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets, or both distal and proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 0–3 (? – fewer than 4); sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1–20 (–‘many’). Lemmas entire; blunt; awnless (usually), or mucronate (\i{}Guadua\i0{}); carinate to non-carinate; 9–22 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; ciliate. Stamens 6. Ovary hairy. Stigmas 3 (usually?). \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}long-linear\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Mesophyll with arm cells; with fusoids. Midrib conspicuous; having complex vascularization. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Bambusoideae; Bambusodae; Bambuseae. About 120 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
