{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Cynodon\i0{} Rich.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Capriola\i0{} Adans., \i{}Dactilon\i0{} Vill., \i{}Fibichia\i0{} Koel.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. Culms 4–60(–100) cm high; herbaceous. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} present; \b\i{}a fringed membrane (very short), or a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}of spicate main branches\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} solitary; \b\i{}secund\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}1.7–3 mm long\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}compressed laterally\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}disarticulating above the glumes, or disarticulating between the glumes\i0\b0{}. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret, or terminated by a female-fertile floret (\i{}C. incompletus\i0{}). \b\i{}Hairy callus\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal to more or less equal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate. Upper glume 1 nerved, or 1–3 nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only (normally), or with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets (when present) distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}1\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} entire; pointed, or blunt; \b\i{}awnless\i0\b0{}; carinate; 1–4 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short. Pericarp fused.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NAD–ME (2 species); XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only, or having a conventional arc of bundles. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Chloridoideae; main chloridoid assemblage. 10 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. This project.
}
