{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Festuca\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Amphigenes\i0{} Janka, \i{}Anatherum\i0{} Nabelek, \i{}Argillochloa\i0{} Weber, \i{}Bucetum\i0{} Parnell, \i{}Drymochloa\i0{} Holub, \i{}Drymonaetes\i0{} Fourr., \i{}Festucaria\i0{} Fabric., \i{}Gnomonia\i0{} Lunell, \i{}Gramen\i0{} Krause, \i{}Hellerochloa\i0{} Rauschert, \i{}Leiopoa\i0{} Ohwi, \i{}Lojaconoa\i0{} Gand., \i{}Nabelekia\i0{} Roshev., \i{}Wasatchia\i0{} M. E. Jones
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. \b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} 2–200 cm high; \b\i{}herbaceous\i0\b0{}; unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear to linear-lanceolate; 0.2–15 mm wide. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane (sometimes ciliolate)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets (\i{}Leucopoa\i0{} being excluded). Inflorescence paniculate; open (usually), or contracted (rarely); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 3–20 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes; disarticulating between the florets. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; \b\i{}very unequal\i0\b0{}; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate to non-carinate. Upper glume (1–)3–5 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}2–14 (rarely 1)\i0\b0{}. Lemmas entire, or incised; when entire pointed, or blunt; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1; from a sinus, or apical; non-geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma (usually), or about as long as the body of the lemma (sometimes, rarely somewhat longer). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}non-carinate\i0\b0{}; 3–7 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; ciliate, or glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous, or hairy. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small, or medium sized, or large. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}long-linear (usually about as long as the grain, but sometimes elliptical and only half as long)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Pooideae; Poodae; Poeae. 360 species (or more). Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project; Aiken \i{}et al.\i0{} 1985.
}
