{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Phragmites\i0{} Adans.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Czernya\i0{} Presl, \i{}Miphragtes\i0{} Nieuwland, \i{}Oxyanthe\i0{} Steud., \i{}Trichoon\i0{} Roth, \i{}Xenochloa\i0{} Roem. & Schult.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. Culms 60–400 cm high (–1000 cm); woody and persistent to herbaceous (often somewhat persistent); branched above (especially when main culm damaged), or unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear-lanceolate to lanceolate; 6–50 mm wide; not pseudopetiolate. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} paniculate; \b\i{}open (20–60 cm long, plumose, the fertile lemmas surrounded by long white silky hairs)\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 9–16 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes (at least above the L\sub{}1\nosupersub{}); disarticulating between the florets. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present (with long fine silky hairs). \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; non-carinate (rounded on the back). Upper glume 3–5 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. \b\i{}The incomplete florets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}both distal and proximal to the female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}. The proximal incomplete florets 1; male (the stamens often 2), or sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}(2–)3–10\i0\b0{}. Lemmas entire; pointed (acute to acuminate or aristulate); awnless, or awned (narrow-attenuate, muticous to aristulate). Awns (if lemmas aristulate) 1; apical; non-geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma. Lemmas non-carinate; 1–3 nerved. Palea present; conspicuous but relatively short. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; ciliate, or glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; brown. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}short\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Mesophyll with arm cells. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Arundinoideae; Arundineae. 3 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
