{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Poa\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Arctopoa\i0{} (Griseb.) Probat., \i{}Neuropoa\i0{} Clayton, \i{}Oreopoa\i0{} Grand., \i{}Paneion\i0{} Lunell, \i{}Parodiochloa\i0{} C.E. Hubb., \i{}Poagrostis\i0{} Raf.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. \b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} \b\i{}(1–)4–150 cm high\i0\b0{}; herbaceous; unbranched above. Leaf blades linear, or linear-lanceolate (often ending in a boat-shaped tip); 0.2–12 mm wide (rarely wider). \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane, or a fringed membrane (rarely)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets, or dioecious (or gynodioecious, in subgenus \i{}Andinae\i0{}). \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}paniculate\i0\b0{}; open, or contracted; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}not secund\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 2–11 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes; disarticulating between the florets. \b\i{}Rachilla\i0\b0{} \b\i{}prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret\i0\b0{}. Hairy callus present, or absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; more or less equal, or very unequal to more or less equal (nearly always ‘subequal’, with the G\sub{}1\nosupersub{} somewhat shorter); \b\i{}shorter than the adjacent lemmas\i0\b0{}; awnless; carinate. Upper glume (1–)3(–5) nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only, or with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} (1–)2–13(–15) (the one-floreted species very unusual, perhaps restricted to Malesia). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} nearly always entire (very rarely tridenticulate); pointed; awnless, or mucronate (2–3 mm terminal ‘awns’ in a very few species, e.g. in the southern South American \i{}P. flabellata\i0{}); \b\i{}carinate\i0\b0{}; without a germination flap; (3–)5 nerved, or 7–11 nerved (rarely, e.g. in the Australian \i{}Neuropoa\i0{}). Palea present; relatively long, or conspicuous but relatively short. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; nearly always glabrous (occasionally ciliolate). Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}short\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Pooideae; Poodae; Poeae. About 500 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Mainly Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
