{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}Key First Lead;}}\widowctrl{}

\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb0\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Zea\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Mays\i0{} Miller, \i{}Mayzea\i0{} Raf., \i{}Reana\i0{} Brignoli, \i{}Thalysia\i0{} Kuntze. = \i{}Zea mays\i0{} subsp. \i{}mays\i0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Robust annual. Culms 200–450 cm high; herbaceous. Culm nodes glabrous. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. \b\i{}Plants\i0\b0{} \b\i{}monoecious with all the fertile spikelets unisexual\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}peculiar: the female axillary, comprising a stout, spicate spadix with spikelets in few to several longitudinal rows, terminating in a tuft of long pendulous styles (‘silks’); the male spikelets in terminal panicles of spiciform ‘tassels’\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets paired; not secund; consistently in ‘long-and-short’ combinations (male), or not in distinct ‘long-and-short’ combinations (female).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-sterile spikelets\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Male spikelets in pairs, two-flowered, with many-nerved, membranous glumes. Lemmas and paleas hyaline, the florets with three stamens and two cuneate lodicules\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets not noticeably compressed to compressed dorsiventrally; not disarticulating. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal; long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awnless. Upper glume 0 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1; sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas awnless; non-carinate; 3 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} absent. Stamens 0. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2 (at tip of style); white to red pigmented (or green). \i{}Fruit\i0{} medium sized. Hilum short.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NADP–ME; XyMS–. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Special diagnostic feature.\b0{} \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Fruiting inflorescence a massive, spatheate cob, the fruits in many rows\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Panicoideae; Andropogonodae; Maydeae. 1 species. Neotropical.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
