{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs22\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs22\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs22\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs22\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs22\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s23\fi-300\li300\keep\keepn\b\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 1;}{\s24\fi-300\li450\keep\fs22\sbasedon0\snext0\sautoupd{}toc 2;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs22\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}\pard\plain\s2\qc\sb500\sa400\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28{} Implicit Attributes \par\pard\plain\qj\sa300\fs22{}Unless indicated otherwise, the following attributes are implicit throughout the descriptions, except where the characters concerned are inapplicable.

\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Leaf blades not pseudopetiolate. Ligule present.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not in distinct ‘long-and-short’ combinations.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Glumes present. Fruit smooth. Pericarp fused.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. Mesophyll without arm cells; without fusoids. Midrib without colourless tissue adaxially.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Special diagnostic feature.\b0{} Fruiting inflorescence not as in maize.
\par\pard\plain\s2\qc\sb500\sa400\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28{} Descriptions \par\pard\plain\qj\fs22{}The bold-italic parts are diagnostic descriptions, generated with the aid of Intkey (Dallwitz \i{}et al.\i0{} 1995, 2000). They distinguish each taxon in at least two respects from every other taxon.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Echinochloa\i0{} P. Beauv.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Ornithospermum\i0{} Dumoulin, \i{}Tema\i0{} Adans.Culms 40\endash{}360 cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culms branched above, or unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} present, or absent; \b\i{}when present, \i0\b0{}\b\i{}a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}of spicate main branches (the spikelets often hispid)\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}paired, or clustered in little secondary racemelets\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}secund\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} 2.3\endash{}7 mm long; \b\i{}compressed dorsiventrally\i0\b0{}; falling with the glumes. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal; (the upper) shorter than the adjacent lemmas to long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awned, or awnless. \b\i{}Upper glume\i0\b0{} \b\i{}5 nerved, or 7 nerved\i0\b0{}. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1; male (rarely), or sterile. The proximal lemmas awned, or awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas entire; awnless (obtuse to apiculate); non-carinate; with a clear germination flap; 5 nerved. \b\i{}Palea\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present (the tip reflexed)\i0\b0{}; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NADP–ME (3 species); XyMS–. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Panicoideae; Panicodae; Paniceae. 30\endash{}40 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Anisopogon\i0{} R.Br.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} \b\i{}60\endash{}110 cm high\i0\b0{}; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Oat-like \i0\b0{}\b\i{}perennial\i0\b0{}. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear-lanceolate; 2\endash{}3 mm wide. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringed membrane (the membrane short to relatively long, hairy on the back)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence paniculate; open; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}40\endash{}60 mm long\i0\b0{}; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes. \b\i{}Rachilla\i0\b0{} \b\i{}prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret (the slender prolongation 6\endash{}8 mm long, in the palea groove)\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Hairy callus\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present (about 6 mm long, with dense, white hairs)\i0\b0{}. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal (the upper slightly longer); long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awnless; non-carinate. Upper glume 7\endash{}9 nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only, or with incomplete florets (usually with a single, abortive floret). The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas incised; awned. Awns 3; from a sinus; geniculate; much longer than the body of the lemma (up to 8 cm long). Lemmas non-carinate (rounded on the back); without a germination flap; 3 nerved. Palea present; relatively long (narrow, lanceolate). \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous (two ‘stipoid’ and larger, the third smaller and flimsier); glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary hairy (sparingly so, towards the apex). Stigmas 2, or 3; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} medium sized. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}long-linear\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Pericarp\i0\b0{} \b\i{}free, or loosely adherent\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Arundinoideae; Stipeae. 1 species. Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. This project.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\page\fs50{} B \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Bambusa\i0{} Schreber\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Arundarbor\i0{} Kuntze, \i{}Bonia\i0{} Balansa, \i{}Criciuma\i0{} Soderstrom & Londoño, \i{}Dendrocalamopsis\i0{} (Chia & Fung) Keng f., \i{}Eremocaulon\i0{} Soderstrom & Londoño, \i{}Guadua\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Ischurochloa\i0{} Büse, \i{}Leleba\i0{} Nakai, \i{}Lingnania\i0{} McClure, \i{}Tetragonocalamus\i0{} Nakai – cf. Clayton and Renvoize (1986). Soderstrom and Ellis (1987) refer \i{}Criciuma\i0{}, \i{}Eremocaulon\i0{} and \i{}Guadua\i0{} to their subtribe Guaduinae, along with \i{}Olmeca\i0{}, and place \i{}Tetragonocalamus\i0{} in the Arundinariinae, but revised generic descriptions adequate for the present purpose are not available\b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} (200\endash{})500\endash{}3500 cm high; \b\i{}woody and persistent\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. Culms branched above. Leaf blades pseudopetiolate. Culm nodes glabrous. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane to a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}of pseudospikelets, these solitary or in tufts, fascicles or capitula on leafless branches\i0\b0{}; open; \b\i{}a complex of ‘partial inflorescences’ and intervening foliar organs\i0\b0{}. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} 10\endash{}80 mm long; \b\i{}compressed laterally to not noticeably compressed\i0\b0{}; disarticulating above the glumes; disarticulating between the florets. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate. Upper glume 7\endash{}18 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets, or both distal and proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 0\endash{}3 (? – fewer than 4); sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1\endash{}20 (–‘many’). Lemmas entire; blunt; awnless (usually), or mucronate (\i{}Guadua\i0{}); carinate to non-carinate; 9\endash{}22 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; ciliate. Stamens 6. Ovary hairy. Stigmas 3 (usually?). \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}long-linear\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Mesophyll with arm cells; with fusoids. Midrib conspicuous; having complex vascularization. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Bambusoideae; Bambusodae; Bambuseae. About 120 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\page\fs50{} C \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Chloris\i0{} O. Swartz\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Actinochloris\i0{} Steud., \i{}Agrostomia\i0{} Cerv., \i{}Apogon\i0{} Steud., \i{}Chloridopsis\i0{} Hack., \i{}Chloropsis\i0{} Kuntze, \i{}Chlorostis\i0{} Raf., \i{}Geopogon\i0{} Steud., \i{}Heterolepis\i0{} Boiss., \i{}Leptochloris\i0{} Kuntze, \i{}Phacellaria\i0{} Steud., \i{}Trichloris\i0{} Benth.Culms 10\endash{}300 cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence of spicate main branches (rarely a single raceme); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. \b\i{}Spikelet-bearing axes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}persistent\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} solitary, or paired; \b\i{}secund (on the dorsiventral rachis)\i0\b0{}; not in distinct ‘long-and-short’ combinations.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 1.8\endash{}5.5 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes (the glumes usually persistent). Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. \b\i{}Hairy callus\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present (usually minute)\i0\b0{}. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal (divergent); (the longer) usually shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless. Upper glume 1\endash{}4 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets (at least one of these conspicuous – the spikelet ‘with two florets’). \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1 (rarely 2). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} entire (truncate), or incised; \b\i{}awned\i0\b0{}. Awns 1 (usually), or 3; from a sinus, or apical; non-geniculate. \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}carinate\i0\b0{}; without a germination flap; 1\endash{}7 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white, or red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short. Pericarp free to fused.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type PCK (6 species); XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only, or having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially, or without colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Chloridoideae; main chloridoid assemblage. About 55 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Australian.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Cynodon\i0{} Rich.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Capriola\i0{} Adans., \i{}Dactilon\i0{} Vill., \i{}Fibichia\i0{} Koel.Culms 4\endash{}60(\endash{}100) cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear (test). \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} present; \b\i{}a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}of spicate main branches\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} solitary; \b\i{}secund\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}1.7\endash{}3 mm long\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}compressed laterally\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}disarticulating above the glumes, or disarticulating between the glumes\i0\b0{}. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret, or terminated by a female-fertile floret (\i{}C. incompletus\i0{}). \b\i{}Hairy callus\i0\b0{} \b\i{}absent\i0\b0{}. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal to more or less equal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate. Upper glume 1 nerved, or 1\endash{}3 nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only (normally), or with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets (when present) distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}1\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} entire; pointed, or blunt; \b\i{}awnless\i0\b0{}; carinate; 1\endash{}4 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short. Pericarp fused.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NAD–ME (2 species); XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only, or having a conventional arc of bundles. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Chloridoideae; main chloridoid assemblage. 10 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. This project.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Andropogon\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Anatherum\i0{} P. Beauv., \i{}Arthrostachys\i0{} Desv., \i{}Arthrolophis\i0{} (Trin.) Chiov., \i{}Dimeiostemon\i0{} Raf., \i{}Eriopodium\i0{} Hochst., \i{}Heterochloa\i0{} Desv., \i{}Homoeatherum\i0{} Nees, \i{}Leptopogon\i0{} RobertyCulms 8\endash{}250(\endash{}430) cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culms branched above, or unbranched above. Leaf blades pseudopetiolate, or not pseudopetiolate; linear. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane to a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence of spicate main branches, or paniculate (usually with paired or digitate ‘racemes’, these often spatheate and aggregated into false panicles); a complex of ‘partial inflorescences’ and intervening foliar organs (often), or not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. \b\i{}Spikelet-bearing axes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}disarticulating\i0\b0{}; disarticulating at the joints. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} paired; \b\i{}consistently in ‘long-and-short’ combinations\i0\b0{}; in pedicellate/sessile combinations. Pedicels of the ‘pedicellate’ spikelets free of the rachis. The ‘shorter’ spikelets hermaphrodite. The ‘longer’ spikelets male-only, or sterile (sometimes reduced to their pedicels).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-sterile spikelets\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}The pedicelled spikelets male or barren, usually awnless, occasionally suppressed\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} compressed laterally, or not noticeably compressed, or compressed dorsiventrally; \b\i{}falling with the glumes\i0\b0{}. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal; long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awned, or awnless (G\sub{}2\nosupersub{} sometimes aristate). Upper glume 1\endash{}3 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1; sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas incised (usually bifid); awned. Awns 1; from a sinus; geniculate; about as long as the body of the lemma to much longer than the body of the lemma. Lemmas non-carinate; 1\endash{}3 nerved. Palea present; very reduced (hyaline). \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present (tiny); fleshy; ciliate, or glabrous. Stamens 1\endash{}3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NADP–ME (3 species); XyMS–. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Panicoideae; Andropogonodae; Andropogoneae. About 100 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, and Cape.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\sb300\fs50{} A \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Agrostis\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Agraulus\i0{} P. Beauv., \i{}Agrestis\i0{} Bub., \i{}Anomalotis\i0{} Steud., \i{}Bromidium\i0{} Nees, \i{}Candollea\i0{} Steud., \i{}Chaetotropis\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Decandolea\i0{} Batard, \i{}Didymochaeta\i0{} Steud., \i{}Lachnagrostis\i0{} Trin., \i{}Neoschischkinia\i0{} Tsvelev, \i{}Notonema\i0{} Raf., \i{}Pentatherum\i0{} Nabelek, \i{}Podagrostis\i0{} (Griseb.) Scribn., \i{}Senisetum\i0{} Koidz., \i{}Trichodium\i0{} Michaux, \i{}Vilfa\i0{} Adans.Culms mostly (3\endash{})5\endash{}100 cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culms unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear; 0.2\endash{}10 mm wide. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence paniculate; open, or contracted (e.g., \i{}Bromidium\i0{}); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} 0.8\endash{}4 mm long; compressed laterally; \b\i{}disarticulating above the glumes\i0\b0{}. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret, or terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present (the hairs less than 0.5 mm long), or absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; more or less equal; \b\i{}long relative to the adjacent lemmas\i0\b0{}; awnless; carinate, or non-carinate. Upper glume 1 nerved. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}with female-fertile florets only\i0\b0{}. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}entire to incised (usually truncate or emarginate, sometimes toothed via excurrent veins)\i0\b0{}; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1, or 3 (\i{}Bromidium\i0{}), or 5 (rarely); dorsal; geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma to about as long as the body of the lemma, or much longer than the body of the lemma (rarely). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}non-carinate\i0\b0{}; without a germination flap; 3\endash{}5 nerved. Palea nearly always present; relatively long, or conspicuous but relatively short, or very reduced. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}short\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Pooideae; Poodae; Aveneae. About 220 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Eleusine\i0{} Gaertn.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Culms 10\endash{}150 cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Annual, or perennial (the culms flattened)\i0\b0{}. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. Inflorescence of spicate main branches; open, or contracted (sometimes forming a capitulum); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}secund\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 3.5\endash{}11 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes, or not disarticulating (\i{}E. coracana\i0{}); disarticulating between the florets (except in \i{}E. coracana\i0{}). Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate. Upper glume 3\endash{}5(\endash{}7) nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only, or with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}3\endash{}15\i0\b0{}. Lemmas entire; pointed, or blunt; awnless to mucronate; carinate; 3 nerved. Palea present. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy, or membranous; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white, or brown. \i{}\b\i{}Fruit\i0\b0{}\i0{} small (0.9\endash{}2 mm long); \b\i{}sculptured\i0\b0{}. Hilum short. Pericarp free.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NAD–ME (2 species); XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Chloridoideae; main chloridoid assemblage. 9 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\page\fs50{} F \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Festuca\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Amphigenes\i0{} Janka, \i{}Anatherum\i0{} Nabelek, \i{}Argillochloa\i0{} Weber, \i{}Bucetum\i0{} Parnell, \i{}Drymochloa\i0{} Holub, \i{}Drymonaetes\i0{} Fourr., \i{}Festucaria\i0{} Fabric., \i{}Gnomonia\i0{} Lunell, \i{}Gramen\i0{} Krause, \i{}Hellerochloa\i0{} Rauschert, \i{}Leiopoa\i0{} Ohwi, \i{}Lojaconoa\i0{} Gand., \i{}Nabelekia\i0{} Roshev., \i{}Wasatchia\i0{} M. E. Jones\b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} 2\endash{}200 cm high; \b\i{}herbaceous\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. Culms unbranched above. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear to linear-lanceolate; 0.2\endash{}15 mm wide. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane (sometimes ciliolate)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets (\i{}Leucopoa\i0{} being excluded). Inflorescence paniculate; open (usually), or contracted (rarely); not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 3\endash{}20 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes; disarticulating between the florets. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; \b\i{}very unequal\i0\b0{}; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; carinate to non-carinate. Upper glume (1\endash{})3\endash{}5 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}2\endash{}14 (rarely 1)\i0\b0{}. Lemmas entire, or incised; when entire pointed, or blunt; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1; from a sinus, or apical; non-geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma (usually), or about as long as the body of the lemma (sometimes, rarely somewhat longer). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} \b\i{}non-carinate\i0\b0{}; 3\endash{}7 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; ciliate, or glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous, or hairy. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small, or medium sized, or large. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}long-linear (usually about as long as the grain, but sometimes elliptical and only half as long)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Pooideae; Poodae; Poeae. 360 species (or more). Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Cape, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project; Aiken \i{}et al.\i0{} 1985.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\page\fs50{} O \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Oryza\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Padia\i0{} Moritzi\b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} 30\endash{}300 cm high; \b\i{}herbaceous\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Leaf blades pseudopetiolate, or not pseudopetiolate. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear to linear-lanceolate. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}paniculate (axes usually wavy, the spikelets appressed), or of spicate main branches (the primary branches often reduced to racemes)\i0\b0{}; open; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 4\endash{}12 mm long; strongly compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes (i.e. above the pedicel cup representing them). Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}present to absent (represented only by a small 2-lobed cupule)\i0\b0{}; if present, two; more or less equal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless. \b\i{}Upper glume\i0\b0{} \b\i{}0 nerved\i0\b0{}. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. \b\i{}The proximal incomplete florets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}2 (small, vestigial, no more than half the spikelet length, sometimes only bristles)\i0\b0{}; sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas entire; pointed; awnless, or mucronate, or awned. Awns when present, 1; apical; non-geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma to much longer than the body of the lemma. Lemmas strongly carinate; 3\endash{}9 nerved. Palea present; relatively long (but narrower than the lemma). \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous (but the membranous flange may be narrow); glabrous. \b\i{}Stamens\i0\b0{} \b\i{}6\i0\b0{}. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small, or medium sized, or large. Hilum long-linear.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Mesophyll with arm cells; without fusoids. Midrib conspicuous; having complex vascularization. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Bambusoideae; Oryzodae; Oryzeae. 25 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, and Neotropical.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\page\fs50{} P \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Panicum\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Chasea\i0{} Nieuw., \i{}Coleataenia\i0{} Griseb., \i{}Dileucaden\i0{} (Raf.) Steud., \i{}Eatonia\i0{} Raf., \i{}Eriolytrum\i0{} Kunth, \i{}Milium\i0{} Adans., \i{}Monachne\i0{} P. Beauv., \i{}Phanopyrum\i0{} (Raf.) Nash, \i{}Polyneura\i0{} Peter, \i{}Psilochloa\i0{} Launert, \i{}Setiacis\i0{} S.L. Chen and Y.X. Jin (? – original description inadequate)Culms 20\endash{}400 cm high; woody and persistent, or herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Annual, or perennial (but no overwintering rosette – by contrast with \i{}Dichanthelium\i0{})\i0\b0{}. Culms branched above, or unbranched above. Leaf blades pseudopetiolate (rarely), or not pseudopetiolate. Culm nodes hairy, or glabrous. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane, or a fringed membrane to a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. \b\i{}Plants\i0\b0{} \b\i{}bisexual, with bisexual spikelets\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}paniculate (except in the \i{}Stolonifera\i0{} group, where it consists of racemes and the distinction from \i{}Brachiaria\i0{} breaks down)\i0\b0{}; open, or contracted; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. \b\i{}Spikelet-bearing axes\i0\b0{} \b\i{}persistent\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}not secund (except the American Agrostoidea group, ‘\i{}Psilochloa\i0{}’, etc.)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} 1.4\endash{}6 mm long; \b\i{}compressed dorsiventrally (with very few exceptions: e.g. \i{}P. hemitomum\i0{})\i0\b0{}; \b\i{}falling with the glumes, or not disarticulating\i0\b0{}. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret (very rarely prolonged, e.g. occasionally in \i{}P. heliophilum\i0{}: Zuloaga and Morone 1991). Hairy callus absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; \b\i{}nearly always \i0\b0{}\b\i{}very unequal\i0\b0{}; (the longer) long relative to the adjacent lemmas; nearly always awnless (the G\sub{}2\nosupersub{} truncate to pointed, very rarely shortly awn-tipped). Upper glume 3\endash{}9 nerved. Spikelets nearly always with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1 (rarely 2); male, or sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas entire; pointed, or blunt; awnless (rarely minutely apiculate); non-carinate; with a clear germination flap; 3\endash{}11 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; red pigmented. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. Hilum short (linear in (e.g.) \i{}P. glutinosum\i0{}, \i{}P. macranthum\i0{}, \i{}P. pilgerianum\i0{} = \i{}Psilochloa\i0{}).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}, or C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; biochemical type PCK (5 species), or NAD–ME (14 species), or NADP–ME (4 species); when biochemically tested, XyMS+ (C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}, or C\sub{}4\nosupersub{} NAD-ME or PCK), or XyMS– (NADP-ME). Midrib conspicuous, or not readily distinguishable; with one bundle only, or having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially, or without colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma (rarely).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Panicoideae; Panicodae; Paniceae. About 370 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Mainly Metcalfe 1960 and this project.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Phragmites\i0{} Adans.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Czernya\i0{} Presl, \i{}Miphragtes\i0{} Nieuwland, \i{}Oxyanthe\i0{} Steud., \i{}Trichoon\i0{} Roth, \i{}Xenochloa\i0{} Roem. & Schult.Culms 60\endash{}400 cm high (–1000 cm); woody and persistent to herbaceous (often somewhat persistent).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Perennial. Culms branched above (especially when main culm damaged), or unbranched above. Leaf blades not pseudopetiolate. Culm nodes glabrous. Leaf blades linear-lanceolate to lanceolate; 6\endash{}50 mm wide. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringe of hairs\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} paniculate; \b\i{}open (20\endash{}60 cm long, plumose, the fertile lemmas surrounded by long white silky hairs)\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets not secund.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 9\endash{}16 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes (at least above the L\sub{}1\nosupersub{}); disarticulating between the florets. Rachilla prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret. Hairy callus present (with long fine silky hairs). \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; very unequal; shorter than the adjacent lemmas; awnless; non-carinate (rounded on the back). Upper glume 3\endash{}5 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. \b\i{}The incomplete florets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}both distal and proximal to the female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}. The proximal incomplete florets 1; male (the stamens often 2), or sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}\b\i{}Female-fertile florets\i0\b0{}\i0{} \b\i{}(2\endash{})3\endash{}10\i0\b0{}. Lemmas entire; pointed (acute to acuminate or aristulate); awnless, or awned (narrow-attenuate, muticous to aristulate). Awns (if lemmas aristulate) 1; apical; non-geniculate; much shorter than the body of the lemma. Lemmas non-carinate; 1\endash{}3 nerved. Palea present; conspicuous but relatively short. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; fleshy; ciliate, or glabrous. Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; brown. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}short\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Mesophyll with arm cells. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles. All the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Arundinoideae; Arundineae. 3 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Poa\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Arctopoa\i0{} (Griseb.) Probat., \i{}Neuropoa\i0{} Clayton, \i{}Oreopoa\i0{} Grand., \i{}Paneion\i0{} Lunell, \i{}Parodiochloa\i0{} C.E. Hubb., \i{}Poagrostis\i0{} Raf.\b\i{}Culms\i0\b0{} \b\i{}(1\endash{})4\endash{}150 cm high\i0\b0{}; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Annual, or perennial. Culms unbranched above. Leaf blades linear, or linear-lanceolate (often ending in a boat-shaped tip); 0.2\endash{}12 mm wide (rarely wider). \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}an unfringed membrane, or a fringed membrane (rarely)\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. Plants bisexual, with bisexual spikelets, or dioecious (or gynodioecious, in subgenus \i{}Andinae\i0{}). \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}paniculate\i0\b0{}; open, or contracted; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. \b\i{}Spikelets\i0\b0{} \b\i{}not secund\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets 2\endash{}11 mm long; compressed laterally; disarticulating above the glumes; disarticulating between the florets. \b\i{}Rachilla\i0\b0{} \b\i{}prolonged beyond the uppermost female-fertile floret\i0\b0{}. Hairy callus present, or absent. \i{}\b\i{}Glumes\i0\b0{}\i0{} two; more or less equal, or very unequal to more or less equal (nearly always ‘subequal’, with the G\sub{}1\nosupersub{} somewhat shorter); \b\i{}shorter than the adjacent lemmas\i0\b0{}; awnless; carinate. Upper glume (1\endash{})3(\endash{}5) nerved. Spikelets with female-fertile florets only, or with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets distal to the female-fertile florets. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} (1\endash{})2\endash{}13(\endash{}15) (the one-floreted species very unusual, perhaps restricted to Malesia). \b\i{}Lemmas\i0\b0{} nearly always entire (very rarely tridenticulate); pointed; awnless, or mucronate (2–3 mm terminal ‘awns’ in a very few species, e.g. in the southern South American \i{}P. flabellata\i0{}); \b\i{}carinate\i0\b0{}; without a germination flap; (3\endash{})5 nerved, or 7\endash{}11 nerved (rarely, e.g. in the Australian \i{}Neuropoa\i0{}). Palea present; relatively long, or conspicuous but relatively short. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} present; membranous; nearly always glabrous (occasionally ciliolate). Stamens 3. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2; white. \i{}Fruit\i0{} small. \b\i{}Hilum\i0\b0{} \b\i{}short\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}3\nosupersub{}; XyMS+. Midrib conspicuous; with one bundle only. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma, or all the vascular bundles accompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Pooideae; Poodae; Poeae. About 500 species. Holarctic, Paleotropical, Neotropical, Australian, and Antarctic.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Mainly Metcalfe 1960; this project.

\par\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb0\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\b{}\page\fs50{} Z \b0\fs22{}\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}\i{}Zea\i0{} L.\fs22\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}Including \i{}Mays\i0{} Miller, \i{}Mayzea\i0{} Raf., \i{}Reana\i0{} Brignoli, \i{}Thalysia\i0{} Kuntze. = \i{}Zea mays\i0{} subsp. \i{}mays\i0{}Culms 200\endash{}450 cm high; herbaceous.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Habit, vegetative morphology\b0{}. Robust annual. Culm nodes glabrous. \b\i{}Ligule\i0\b0{} \b\i{}a fringed membrane\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Inflorescence\b0{}. \b\i{}Plants\i0\b0{} \b\i{}monoecious with all the fertile spikelets unisexual\i0\b0{}. \b\i{}Inflorescence\i0\b0{} \b\i{}peculiar: the female axillary, comprising a stout, spicate spadix with spikelets in few to several longitudinal rows, terminating in a tuft of long pendulous styles (‘silks’); the male spikelets in terminal panicles of spiciform ‘tassels’\i0\b0{}; not comprising ‘partial inflorescences’ and foliar organs. Spikelet-bearing axes persistent. Spikelets paired; not secund; consistently in ‘long-and-short’ combinations (male), or not in distinct ‘long-and-short’ combinations (female).
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-sterile spikelets\b0{}. \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Male spikelets in pairs, two-flowered, with many-nerved, membranous glumes. Lemmas and paleas hyaline, the florets with three stamens and two cuneate lodicules\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Female-fertile spikelets, florets, fruit\b0{}. Spikelets not noticeably compressed to compressed dorsiventrally; not disarticulating. Rachilla terminated by a female-fertile floret. Hairy callus absent. \i{}Glumes\i0{} two; more or less equal; long relative to the adjacent lemmas; awnless. Upper glume 0 nerved. Spikelets with incomplete florets. The incomplete florets proximal to the female-fertile florets. The proximal incomplete florets 1; sterile. The proximal lemmas awnless. \i{}Female-fertile florets\i0{} 1. Lemmas awnless; non-carinate; 3 nerved. Palea present; relatively long. \i{}Lodicules\i0{} absent. Stamens 0. Ovary glabrous. Stigmas 2 (at tip of style); white to red pigmented (or green). \i{}Fruit\i0{} medium sized. Hilum short.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Photosynthetic pathway, leaf blade anatomy\b0{}. C\sub{}4\nosupersub{}; biochemical type NADP–ME; XyMS–. Midrib conspicuous; having a conventional arc of bundles; with colourless tissue adaxially. Many of the smallest vascular bundles unaccompanied by sclerenchyma.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Special diagnostic feature.\b0{} \b\i{}\i0\b0{}\b\i{}Fruiting inflorescence a massive, spatheate cob, the fruits in many rows\i0\b0{}.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Taxonomy, distribution\b0{}. Panicoideae; Andropogonodae; Maydeae. 1 species. Neotropical.
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs22{}\b{}Anatomical references\b0{}. Metcalfe 1960; this project.
}
