{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0{}\deflang3081\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418{}{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{}Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{}Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{}Arial;}}{\stylesheet{\qj\fi340\fs20\snext0{}Normal;}{\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs32\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 2;}{\s3\ql\sb500\sa100\keepn\b\f2\fs24\sbasedon0\snext0{}Heading 3;}{\s6\ql\sb0\sa0\li340\fi-340\fs20\sbasedon0{}References;}{\s10\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Character Heading;}{\s11\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-705\fs20\sbasedon0{}Feature;}{\s12\ql\sb0\sa0\li705\fi-200\fs20\sbasedon0{}State;}{\s13\ql\sb0\sa0\li505\fi400\fs20\sbasedon0{}Character Note;}{\s20\qc\sb300\sa0\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Heading;}{\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24\sbasedon0{}Taxon Name;}{\s22\qj\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20\sbasedon0{}Description;}{\s30\ql\sb0\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon0{}Key;}{\s31\ql\sb100\sa0\fi-907\li907\tx680\tqr\tldot\tx9072\fs20\sbasedon30{}KeyFirst Lead;}}\widowctrl{}\par\pard\plain\s2\qc\sb500\sa400\keepn\b\f2\fs28\kerning28{}Descriptions


\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Anochetus\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small, or medium-large. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. BROWN Mandible type Odontomachite type: linear, straight or feebly curved, approximate, with largeest teeth forming a fork at the apex. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 3, or 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad situated close together mesad, behind free clypeal margin. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet, or Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or with rectangular corners, or armed with a pair of teeth. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire, or angular or emarginate, or with a single median tooth or tubercle, or armed with a pair of side-by-side teeth. BROWN subpetiolar process diminishing gradually posteriad. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with no spurs (spurs absent), or 1 apical spur, or 2 apical spurs. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur, or 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Asphinctopone\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm (near 0.61). Mandibles broadly triangular (but with strongly oblique basal margin that leaves a triangular space on closure, each blade with a large, pale internal sinus). Mandibular dentition 4\endash{}5 teeth, sparsely stepped. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 2 (uncertain). Labial palp count 2. Frontal lobes large, anterior of clypeal margin (occupy about a third of head width; contiguous, separated only by a fine median frontal groove; placed fairly far forward on median clypeal lobe, anterior to anterolateral clypeal margins). Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet (0.03\endash{}0.04mm diameter). Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe (with a broad median lobe that is produced on each side as a sharply angulate corner or tooth; middle of lobe with a blunt longitudinal carina that projects slightly as a tubercle beyond the transverse anterior margin). Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove a narrow, sometimes deep, distinct trough. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) strong and deeply impressed (MESONOTUM and PROPODEUM both high and rounded, so that the METANOTAL GROOVE is very distinct and deeply impressed). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally (declivity unarmed, but bluntly marginate laterad). Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire (strongly compressed axiad, squamiform, very slender in side view, with a narrowly rounded apex, but the summit broadly rounded when viewed from front or rear). BROWN subpetiolar process subtriangular in side view, only moderately deep anteriad, diminishing caudad to a sharp tooth or shelf that projects obliquely caudad. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Tergum of postpetiole (T3) large, with anterior face receding ventrad, tapering to T4 caudad without a constriction. Prora present (prominent but thin). Gaster smooth, without a constriction between the first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent (replaced by a series of slender but stiff, oblique hairs on extensor tibial surface). Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple (small and weak, diverging at a narrow angle). Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. Sculpture mostly smooth and shining; head finely punctulate and with a weak carina running from the base of the mandible and ending just above the eye. Pilosity Erect hairs absent on dorsal surfaces. Pubescence fine reclinate, directed mesad, moderately shining; metapleura and sides of propodeum shining, but with some obscure rugulation, particularly below. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. Males unknown. Larva unknown. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Belonopelta\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm. Mandibles narrow and elongate. BROWN Mandible type Belonopelta type: Mandible linear-subtriangular, with 4\endash{}5 large, sharp teeth in close series, interspaces narrowly V-shaped (Narrowly triangular to linear, with a long, slender apical tooth and 4\endash{}5 large, acute teeth in close series, separated by acutely V-shaped interspaces, strix present but weak). Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 3. Labial palp count 3. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad situated close together mesad, behind free clypeal margin. Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet (multi-facetted). Eyes low and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin strongly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct (little more than a broad, shallow angle). BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum (Distinct and moderately to distinctly impressed). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like (Brown says it's round). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process Broadly rounded in front, tapering to a narrower strip behind, finally ending abruptly in a rectangular or rounded corner caudad. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs (one very small). Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. Sculpture fine, punctulate or micropunctulate and opaque or subopaque on head and alitrunk, with superimposed punctures small and obscure if present. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (but little difference in size from worker (Wilson, 1955B:84\endash{}85.)). Males unknown. Larva known (LARVA: BODY FORM: slender, gradually broader apicad, without a sharply differentiated neck; HEAD: large, subcordate, with round posterior corners; MANDIBLES: with acute apical and 2 mesal teeth; TUBERCLES: about 128, slender, with an apical spine; VISCIDIA: 4 pairs, on A3\endash{}6; SETAE: absent, but minute sensilla on head (Wheeler, G. C., J. 1964 :451\endash{}453. Pupae enclosed in cocoons.). BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Four pairs on A. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Centromyrmex\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small, or medium-large. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. Mandibles broadly triangular (Brown: Triangular, with serial or reduced dentition; or linear, subfalcate, with coarse tooth or angle near midlength; tapered apicad from this, in C. silvestrii. Shattuck: Mandibles curved ventrally, the curve consisting of 2 weakly convex regions separated by a weak angle approx. ¼ to ½ from attachment with head (when viewed laterally). Less obvious in bequaerti which has shorter, more triangular mandibles, and in silvestrii, which has thin, elongate mandibles.). BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part, or Leptogenys type: linear, or rarely triangular, straight to arcuate, with dentition reduced to the apical tooth plus 1\endash{}3 accompanying small teeth at the extreme apex, grading into 1. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 3. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins, or Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face (Close together near midline of head; behind clypeal margin, or advanced beyond in C. silvestrii). Eyes absent. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum with an anterior, horizontal angle or ridge (Brown says unarmed). Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove a broad, shallow angle. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like (Slit-shaped and situated high up in C. bequaerti; in other species elliptical, or round, and lower down). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Subpetiolar process rounded posteriorly. BROWN subpetiolar process A simple rounded lobe, tapering caudad, or complex and bilobed in C. hamulatus. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole, or near mid-height of postpetiole (Near mid-height of A3, or slightly below (see \i{}C. affaroi\i0{})). Prora present (typically ponerite in form in C. bequaerti, deep and rounded in most species,or poorly defined). Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with no spurs (spurs absent), or 1 apical spur, or 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines (mid-tibae only). Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae present (and occupying most or all of the extensor surfaces of mesotibiae). Metatibiae with 1 spur, or 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (body size may be nearly to same as the worker, or considerably larger; head width to XXXXXXXXXXX mm in C. bequaerti). Larva known (TUBERCLES: Numerous and widespread, very slender and appearing like erect hairs. DORSAL PAIRED FUNGIFORM TUBERCLES: absent. MEDIAN DORSAL DISK TUBERCLE absent). BROWN Larval tubercles Present (CHECK THIS). BROWN Larval viscidia Absent. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Cryptopone\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) less than 0.5mm, or 0.5\endash{}1.1mm. Mandibles broadly triangular (Triangular to narrowly subtriangular, with 3\endash{}6 acute to weak teeth in series in addition to the apical tooth). BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit present as a lateral pit or groove (generally a small round pit but an elongate groove in \i{}C. ochracea\i0{}). Maxillary palp count 1, or 2. Labial palp count 2. Frontal lobes small, posteror of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins (Approximated at midline of head, behind clypeus). Eyes absent, or a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x, or Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct, or absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum ([Absent to - CHECK THIS, MAY NOT BE CRYPTOPONE, BUT MIS-IDed CENTROMYRMEX - SEE PHOTOS] Distinct and impressed). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Subpetiolar process rounded posteriorly. BROWN subpetiolar process Tapering caudad behind lobe. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present (but weak). Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur, or 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent, or present (On more than half of the extensor surface; lacking in C. hartigi). Metatibiae with 1 spur, or 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (but slight difference in size). BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Four pairs on A (CHECK THIS).

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Diacamma\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins. Eyes large and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin strongly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit present. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed. Propodeum propodeal declivity flat or weakly concave, with lateral and/or dorsal margins defined and more or less angulate, but not raised as sharp carinae or plates. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole armed with a pair of side-by-side teeth. BROWN subpetiolar process state 2. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia present (but very small). Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens absent, replaced by fertile worker. BROWN Male pygidial spine present, at least as an acute©angled fold. BROWN Male parameres As in Diacamma: with a spoon©like apical section. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Dinoponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size very large. Head width (without eyes) 3.5\endash{}6.0mm. Mandibles broadly triangular (BROWN: Narrowly triangular, with serial dentition, large teeth). BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins (Situated close together mesad, behind clypeus). Eyes large and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin armed with a pair of blunt teeth. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval (BROWN: slit-shaped). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process Diminishing gradually posteriad. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present (small). Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws with a single medial tooth. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens absent, replaced by fertile worker. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Dolioponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) less than 0.5mm. Mandibles broadly triangular (triangular, with apical and one subapical teeth, plus 6 minute, separated teeth basad, which may be modified setae). Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count unknown. Labial palp count unknown. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Large, situated close together near midline of head and advanced forward beyond the lateral wings of the clypeus. Eyes a single ommatidium. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x (Present only as a minute, dot-like vestige). Eyes low and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron forming a single plate. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally (but obtusely subangular at the sides of the declivity above). Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Petiole block-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process absent. Petiolar sensor in pit. Helcium near mid-height of postpetiole. Prora absent. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands present. BROWN Queens absent, replaced by fertile worker. Larva unknown. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Emeryopone\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm. Mandibles narrow and elongate (BROWN: Narrowly triangular to linear, with a long, slender apical tooth and 4\endash{}5 large, acute teeth in close series, separated by acutely V-shaped interspaces). BROWN Mandible type Belonopelta type: Mandible linear-subtriangular, with 4\endash{}5 large, sharp teeth in close series, interspaces narrowly V-shaped. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 3. Labial palp count 3. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face (Situated close together mesad, behind clypeus). Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet (Small but multi-facetted). Eyes low and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin with a single, thin, central projection or tooth. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like (BROWN says round). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process Lobe angular posteroventrad. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur, or 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. Sculpture of head and alitrunk dominated by round, separated foveolae. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (Winged when virgin (known for one of the three species, with the usual features distinguishing ponerite queens from workers, but little difference in size.). Males unknown. Larva unknown. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Harpegnathos\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size medium-large. Head width (without eyes) 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. BROWN Mandible type Harpegnathos type (Bizarre in form; linear, upcurved and tapered distad, but apices ending without a long apical tooth. Masticatory borders set with short denticles; basal angle represented by an acute-angled, denticulate flange near the mesal base of the shaft). Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad close together on midline of head, behind clypeus. BROWN eyes Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL (Very large, greater than one-third head length, situated at the anterior extremes of the sides of the head). Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws with a single medial tooth. Arolia present. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (but little different in size).

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Hypoponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small, or medium. Head width (without eyes) less than 0.5mm, or 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular dentition Triangular, with serial dentition. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 1. Labial palp count 2. Frontal lobes small, posteror of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins. Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x, or Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet, or Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum (Distinct and deeply impressed to absent). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or propodeal declivity flat or weakly concave, with lateral and/or dorsal margins defined and more or less angulate, but not raised as sharp carinae or plates (Unarmed, but declivity sometimes with angulate dorsal or lateral margins). Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like (Rarely slit-shaped, usually round). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Subpetiolar process rounded posteriorly. BROWN subpetiolar process diminishing gradually posteriad (Tapering caudad). Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (but no much difference in size. Some species also have ergatoid queens, usually worker-like, but intermediate between queen and worker in body size, eye size, and lateral-view thickness of petiolar node.). BROWN Male pygidial spine absent. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Two pairs on A.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Iroponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) less than 0.5mm. Mandibles narrow and elongate. BROWN Mandible type Short, arcuate, downcurved, sublinear, with a concave inner margin bearing few teeth, separated by broad, round-bottomed diastemata. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count unknown. Labial palp count unknown. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Mesal, approximate, broad. Eyes absent. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron forming a single plate. Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct (BROWN: Distinct and impressed). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally (Declivity steep, unarmed, meeting the sides through blunt angles, meeting the dorsal face at an obtuse angle). Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval (very small). Petiole block-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process Broadly rounded blade, diminishing gradually caudad. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near mid-height of postpetiole (anterior face of postpetiolar tergum overhanging it (receding ventrad)). Prora absent. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent (CHECK). Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens unknown. Males unknown. Larva known (LARVA: (figs. full size, one in a pale cocoon. BODY FORM: Slender, cylindrical, moderately curved ventrad, feebly constricted in anterior abdomen. Somites mostly distinct. HEAD: subcordate in FFV. MANDIBLES: Slender, each with acute apex and ............ TUBERCLES: numerous and generally distributed except on venter; slender, tapered, appearing hairlike at first sight, mostly straight and bearing here and there minute hairs or spicules. Fairly even in length, averaging about 0.10 mm, but a bit longer on the thoracic segments near the head. DORSAL VISCIDIA: Six pairs; somites A2 to A7 each with a slender dorsal pair, stalks longer than their broadened apices. Pair on A2 with apex smaller than in the other 5 pairs. SETAE: Moderately numerous, straight on head; lacking on body, except for minute ones on tubercles. Body densely covered with erect spicules.). Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Leptogenys\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small, or medium, or medium-large, or large. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. Mandibles narrow and elongate. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part, or Leptogenys type: linear, or rarely triangular, straight to arcuate, with dentition reduced to the apical tooth plus 1\endash{}3 accompanying small teeth at the extreme apex, grading into 1 (Very variously formed; slender, linear-arcuate and edentate to triangular and serially dentate, or slender, straight, dentate). Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins, or Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face (Close together on midline of head, behind clypeus, or anterior on produced clypeal lobe). Eyes large and multi-faceted, or a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet, or Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL, or Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL, or Very large, greater than half HL. Eyes low and dorsal, or high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin strongly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed, or armed with a series of short teeth. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove a broad, shallow angle. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire, or with a single median tooth or tubercle. BROWN subpetiolar process diminishing gradually posteriad. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae lacking spines (sometimes a single spine present near spurs). Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple, or with a single medial tooth, or pectinate (Pectinate, except for 2\endash{}3 very small African species that have 1 or 2 small teeth). Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens absent, replaced by fertile worker, or wingless when virgin, and otherwise like worker, or dichthadiiform: wingless army ant habitus, or alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (Usually ergatoid, occasionally even subdichthadiiform; rarely winged when virgin, with the usual features distinguishing ponerite queens from workers; unknown in a few species, where replaced by fertilized workers). BROWN Male pygidial spine absent. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted, or Each valve simple, but ventral (serrate) margin with conspicuously diastemate in its apical half. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Loboponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small, or medium. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part (Triangular, serially dentate). Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 2. Labial palp count 2. Frontal lobes large, anterior of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face (Large, close together on midline of head and anterior on produced median lobe of clypeus). Eyes small and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet, or Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum with vertical ridges, or armed with teeth (Armed with a pair of short teeth above and a pair of metapleural teeth below, or else declivity guarded on each side by a lamellate plate or carina). Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval (weakly developed in one species). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire (Unarmed and entire, forming a blunt point in L. obeliscata). BROWN subpetiolar process Diminishing gradually caudad. Petiolar sensor in pit. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands present. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. Males unknown. Larva unknown. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Myopias\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) less than 0.5mm, or 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. Mandibles broadly triangular, or narrow and elongate. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part, or Myopias type: mandible linear, basal margin indistinct or absent, basal angle indistinct or low and rounded; coarser preapical teeth 1, dentition with wide toothless gaps having rounded or rectangular bottoms. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 2, or 3, or 4. Labial palp count 2, or 3, or 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face. Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet, or Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL, or Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL. Eyes low and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct, or absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process diminishing gradually posteriad, or state 2. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent, or Two pairs on A.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Odontomachus\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Gaster smooth, without a constriction between the first and second segments.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Odontoponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) 1.8\endash{}2.7mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins. Eyes large and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL. Eyes high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin armed with a series of short teeth. Pronotum with stout humeral teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed. Propodeum propodeal declivity flat or weakly concave, with lateral and/or dorsal margins defined and more or less angulate, but not raised as sharp carinae or plates, or with vertical ridges. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole angular or emarginate (Brown says single tooth). Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent (Brown says present, CHECK). Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Plectoctena\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small, or very large. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm, or 2.8\endash{}3.5mm, or 3.5\endash{}6.0mm. Mandibles narrow and elongate. BROWN Mandible type Myopias type: mandible linear, basal margin indistinct or absent, basal angle indistinct or low and rounded; coarser preapical teeth 1, dentition with wide toothless gaps having rounded or rectangular bottoms (Linear, with narrow falcate or subfalcate blades lacking a distinct basal angle, armed with 0\endash{}2 low teeth on the mesal margin and with a broad groove running for a distance on the dorsal surface parallel to the mesal margin; inserted in very deep lateral notches at the ends of the clypeus). Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 3. Labial palp count 2, or 4. Frontal lobes large, anterior of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face (Very large, approximate on midline of head and situated anteriad, surpassing the free margin of the clypeus). Eyes large and multi-faceted, or a small cluster of ommatidia (CHECK THIS, DIFFERS FROM BROWN DESCRIPTION). BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x, or Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet. Eyes low and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or propodeal declivity flat or weakly concave, with lateral and/or dorsal margins defined and more or less angulate, but not raised as sharp carinae or plates, or with vertical ridges, or armed with teeth (Declivity guarded on each side by a strong carina or lamina, which in some cases continues across the dorsum to separate the dorsal from the declivitous surfaces). Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like (BROWN THINKS round?). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process diminishing gradually posteriad (Narrow behind anterior lobe, usually diminishing caudad). Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens wingless when virgin, and otherwise like worker, or alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (Winged when virgin, with the usual features distinguishing ponerite queens from workers, but moderate difference in size; or ergatoid and wingless). BROWN Male pygidial spine absent. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Ponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) less than 0.5mm, or 0.5\endash{}1.1mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 2. Labial palp count 2. Frontal lobes small, posteror of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins. Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x, or Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet. Eyes low and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct, or absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or propodeal declivity flat or weakly concave, with lateral and/or dorsal margins defined and more or less angulate, but not raised as sharp carinae or plates. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Subpetiolar process with abrupt angle posteriorly. BROWN subpetiolar process state 2. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. BROWN Male pygidial spine absent. BROWN Male parameres With a lateral lobe; apparently bilobate. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Three pairs on A, or Four pairs on A.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Psalidomyrmex\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm, or 2.8\endash{}3.5mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Psalidomyrmex type: Mandible falcate-triangular or subtrangular, with a rounded basal angle and reduced preapical dentition, dominated by a very long, sharp, apical tooth. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 3. Labial palp count 4. Frontal lobes large, anterior of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face. Eyes large and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet, or Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL. Eyes low and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or propodeal declivity flat or weakly concave, with lateral and/or dorsal margins defined and more or less angulate, but not raised as sharp carinae or plates, or with vertical ridges. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. BROWN subpetiolar process state 2. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. BROWN Male pygidial spine absent. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Simopelta\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size small. Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm (or rarely slightly smaller). Mandibles narrow and elongate. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part, or Myopias type: mandible linear, basal margin indistinct or absent, basal angle indistinct or low and rounded; coarser preapical teeth 1, dentition with wide toothless gaps having rounded or rectangular bottoms (Linear to subtriangular, with irregular preapical dentition consisting usually of a pair of large teeth at the apex, followed basad by a round-bottomed diastema or an irregular series of 1\endash{}4 smaller teeth, and a larger tooth marking the basal angle). Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 2. Labial palp count 2, or 3. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face (Contiguous on midline of head, behind clypeus). Eyes a single ommatidium. BROWN eyes Absent or minute and difficult to see at 50x, or Small, less than 0.10 HL, multi-facetted, or with a single large facet (Small to minute, with a single large facet). Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin with a single, thin, central projection or tooth. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed, or strong and deeply impressed; may be expressed as a narrow, transverse vestige of the metanotum (Present, moderately to distinctly impressed). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval (BROWN SAYS slit-shaped). Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Subpetiolar process rounded posteriorly. BROWN subpetiolar process state 2 (Lobe with angular posteroventral corner). Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur. Apex of tibiae lacking spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia present. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens dichthadiiform: wingless army ant habitus (Dichthad, but with small but distinct eyes. Ocelli absent. Mandibles acutely falciform, with preapical teeth. Head broad. Alitrunk and petiole broad, longitudinally sulcate mesad, the sclerites convex. Known for S. oculata, pergandei, transversa, and one or two undescribed species AND SECOND VERSION QUEEN: dichthad (fig. ) with broad head and small but distinct eyes. Ocelli absent, or a single small median one present. Mandibles acutely falciform, with no preapical teeth. Head broad. Alitrunk and petiole broad, alitrunk and petiole longitudinally sulcate mesad, sclerites separately convex in side view. Sculpture in large part smooth. Sting well-developed and exsertile. (Known for pergandei, oculata and transversa.)). Males unknown (possibly absent, as suggested by Longino in a personal communication). Larva known (aberrant, differing widely according to species. BODY FORM: Stout, nearly straight to curved; prothorax somewhat conical, tapered cephalad and tending to retract the HEAD, which is small; the three thoracic somites distinct, and sometimes separated by exaggerated constrictions, and the first 1\endash{}5 abdominal somites may be constricted off distinctly also. MANDIBLES: falcate, acute, recurved, without median teeth. TUBERCLES: regularly spaced small papillae, or none. VISCIDIA: none. SETAE: none. Known for S. pergandei (Borgmeier 1950, G. C. and J. Wheeler 1957B), S. oculata (Gotwald and Brown 1967:262) and S. transversa, below). BROWN Larval tubercles Absent, or Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent. Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Streblognathus\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) 3.5\endash{}6.0mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. Frontal lobes small, posteror of clypeal margin. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes well behind lateral free clypeal margins. Eyes large and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL. Eyes high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin armed with a pair of blunt teeth. Occipital carinae present (but very week). Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron forming a single plate. Mesopleron separated from sternite by a distinct ridge, the ridge ending posterior to the fore coxa in a dorsally concavity. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) a simple, suture-like line, distinct, but not deeply impressed. Propodeum with vertical ridges, or armed with teeth. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole keel-like. BROWN subpetiolar process state 2. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present, or absent (Brown says absent only). Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens absent, replaced by fertile worker. BROWN Male pygidial spine absent. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted. BROWN Larval tubercles Present. BROWN Larval viscidia Absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Thoumatomyrmex\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Overall body size medium (TL 3\endash{}5). Head width (without eyes) 0.5\endash{}1.1mm, or 1.2\endash{}1.7mm (HEAD BROAD, from about as broad as long to distinctly broader (excluding eyes), broadest at the anterior corners, which are extended briefly as narrow anterior lobes upon which are inserted the mandibles). BROWN Mandible type Thaumatomyrmex type: narrowly linear, arcuate; 3\endash{}4 extremely long, needle-like teeth (Narrow and arcuate, folded against the clypeus when at rest, their teeth extraordinarily long and slender, like the tines of a pitchfork (fig. ), three in number,the interspaces narrowly round-bottomed; sometimes a much smaller fourth tooth occurs at the base of the masticatory margin). Maxillary palp count 3. Labial palp count 3 (Branda~o et al (1991) studied the mouthparts of three species and found that atrox, mutilatus and contumax all had palpal formulae of 3,3). BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Remote from midline of head and from each other; the LOBES large, projecting slightly beyond the free clypeal margin and covering the antennal insertions. BROWN eyes Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL (large, maximum diameter about 0.25 to nearly half of HL, convex and multifacetted). Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or strong and deeply impressed (deeply impressed, weak. or obsolete). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally (unarmed; rounded, or the junction between basal and declivitous faces rounded-subangular; ventral part of declivity with sides raised as weak or subcarinate margins). Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire (unarmed, rounded narrowly or broadly in side view). BROWN subpetiolar process present, shallow and with a concave ventral margin, ending caudad in an abrupt angle or curve. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present (present and weak, or perhaps sometimes absent (?)). Mesotibiae with 1 apical spur (simple). Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 1 spur (pectinate). Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia present. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way (slightly larger than the worker. WINGS: apparently present in virgin queens (known only for T. zeteki)). Karyotype unknown.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Hagensia\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles broadly triangular. Mandibular pit present as a dorsal groove. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. Eyes large and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL. Eyes high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Occipital carinae present. Pronotum with lateral, horizontal angles or ridges. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron divided by a weak to strong suture (very weak). Mesopleron separated from sternite by a distinct ridge, the ridge ending posterior to the fore coxa in a dorsally concavity. Metanotal groove a broad, shallow angle, or a narrow, sometimes deep, distinct trough. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Petiole half-barrel like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs (simple (anterior) and pectinate (posterior)). Pretarsal claws with a single medial tooth. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Pachycondyla\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles broadly triangular. Mandibular pit present as a lateral pit or groove, or absent. Maxillary palp count Palps 4:4 in crassinoda, 4:3 in oculata. Frontal lobes with the anterior sections displaced laterally. Eyes large and multi-faceted, or a small cluster of ommatidia, or small and multi-faceted. Eyes low and dorsal, or low and lateral (sometimes towards the lateral edge), or high and dorsal, or high and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent, or present. Anterior clypeal margin strongly convex, or straight or weakly convex, or with a weak to strong central concavity. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Occipital carinae present, or absent. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth, or with lateral, horizontal angles or ridges (weakly developed). Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron divided by a weak to strong suture, or forming a single plate (but with a weak impression dorsally). Mesopleron separated from sternite by a distinct ridge, the ridge ending posterior to the fore coxa in a dorsally concavity. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline, or weakly developed but distinct, or a broad, shallow angle, or a narrow, sometimes deep, distinct trough. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or with vertical ridges, or armed with teeth. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like. Petiole half-barrel like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire, or armed with a row of small teeth. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present, or absent. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs (both pectinate in some species, anterior spur simple in commutata). Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple, or with a single medial tooth (swollen basally as a weak angle in some species). Arolia present, or absent (sometimes small). Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Pachycondyla (Megaponera)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles broadly triangular. Mandibular pit absent. Frontal lobes with the anterior sections displaced laterally. Eyes large and multi-faceted. Eyes high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth, or with lateral, horizontal angles or ridges (weakly developed). Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron forming a single plate. Mesopleron separated from sternite by a distinct ridge, the ridge ending posterior to the fore coxa in a dorsally concavity. Metanotal groove a broad, shallow angle, or absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum with vertical ridges. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Petiole half-barrel like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws with a single medial tooth. Arolia present. Femoral glands absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Pachycondyla (Mesoponera)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles broadly triangular. Mandibular pit present as a lateral pit or groove, or absent. Eyes large and multi-faceted, or a small cluster of ommatidia, or small and multi-faceted. Eyes low and dorsal, or low and lateral (sometimes towards the lateral edge). Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin strongly convex, or straight or weakly convex, or with a weak to strong central concavity. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Occipital carinae present, or absent. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron forming a single plate. Mesopleron separated from sternite by a distinct ridge, the ridge ending posterior to the fore coxa in a dorsally concavity. Metanotal groove a broad, shallow angle, or a narrow, sometimes deep, distinct trough. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like (CHECK if as elongate as Neoponera). Petiole half-barrel like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present, or absent. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Pachycondyla (Neoponera)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles broadly triangular. Mandibular pit present as a lateral pit or groove, or absent. Eyes large and multi-faceted, or a small cluster of ommatidia. Eyes low and dorsal, or low and lateral, or high and dorsal, or high and lateral. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent, or present. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex, or with a weak to strong central concavity. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Occipital carinae present, or absent. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth, or with lateral, horizontal angles or ridges. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron divided by a weak to strong suture, or forming a single plate (but with a weak impression dorsally). Metanotal groove weakly developed but distinct, or a broad, shallow angle, or absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs (both pectinate in some species, anterior spur simple in commutata). Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple (swollen basally as a weak angle in some species). Arolia present, or absent (sometimes small). Femoral glands absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Pachycondyla (Pachycondyla)\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Head width (without eyes) 1.2\endash{}1.7mm, or 1.8\endash{}2.7mm, or 2.8\endash{}3.5mm. Mandibles broadly triangular. BROWN Mandible type Pachycondyla type: Mandible narrowly to broadly triangular, basal margin distinct, transverse or oblique, set off from the apical (masticatory) margin by a tooth, abrupt curve, or angle; masticatory margin with serial preapical teeth at least in part. Mandibular pit absent. Maxillary palp count 4. Labial palp count 4. BROWN Frontal lobes far advanced anteriad Lobes produced well beyond lateral wings of clypeus when head is viewed full face. Eyes large and multi-faceted, or a small cluster of ommatidia, or small and multi-faceted. BROWN eyes Medium, between 0.10 and 0.25 HL, or Large, between 0.25 and 0.5 HL. Eyes low and dorsal, or low and lateral, or high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Occipital carinae present. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron divided by a weak to strong suture. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. BROWN Metanotal groove (between mesonotum and propodeal dorsum) absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally, or armed with teeth. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval, or elongate or slit-like (generally elongate, round to oval in African species previously placed in Phrynoponera). Petiole block-like, or half-barrel like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire, or armed with 5 teeth, or armed with a row of small teeth. BROWN subpetiolar process state 2. Petiolar sensor absent. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present, or absent (CHECK if present in everybody except Phryonoponera). Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent. BROWN Queens alate when virgin, differing from workers in normal formicid way. BROWN Male pygidial spine present, at least as an acute©angled fold. BROWN Male parameres Simple, usually with a narrowly rounded apex. BROWN Male aedeagus Each valve simple, ventral nargin uninterrupted.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Paltothyreus\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles broadly triangular. Mandibular pit absent. Eyes large and multi-faceted. Eyes high and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Pretarsal claws with a single medial tooth. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Pseudoponera\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles narrowly triangular. Mandibular pit absent. Eyes a small cluster of ommatidia. Eyes low and dorsal. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin produced forward as a median lobe. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Metanotal groove absent or very faint, not breaking dorsal outline (a very shallow, broad angle). Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening elongate or slit-like. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present. Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae absent. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent.

\par\pard\plain\s21\ql\sb300\sa100\li0\fi0\keep\keepn\b\fs24{}Wadeura\fs20\b0{}
\par\pard\plain\qj\s22\sb0\sa0\li0\fi340\fs20{}Mandibles narrowly triangular. Mandibular pit absent. Carinae between eye and base of mandible absent. Anterior clypeal margin straight or weakly convex. Anterior clypeal margin unarmed. Pronotum rounded, lacking humeral angles or teeth. Mesopleural pit absent. Mesopleuron forming a single plate. Mesopleron separated from sternite by a distinct ridge, the ridge ending posterior to the fore coxa in a dorsally concavity. Metanotal groove a broad, shallow angle. Propodeum unarmed, dorsum rounding posteriorly and laterally. Propodeal spiracular opening round to oval. Dorsum of petiole unarmed and entire. Helcium near bottom of postpetiole. Prora present (but very weak). Gaster with constriction between first and second segments. Mesotibiae with 2 apical spurs. Apex of tibiae with circle of spines. Conical spiniform stiff "pusher" setae or teeth on extensor surface of mesotibiae present (also present on tarsus). Metatibiae with 2 spurs. Pretarsal claws simple. Arolia absent. Femoral glands absent.
}
