{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sb120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22\lang3081 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs32\lang3081\kerning28 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\lang3081\kerning28 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\sb500\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\f1\lang3081 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-340\li340\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22\lang3081 \sbasedon0 \snext15 References;}{
\s16\li340\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22\lang3081 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Address;}}{\info{\author Dallwitz}{\operator Dallwitz}{\creatim\yr1998\mo8\dy7\hr11\min36}{\revtim\yr2000\mo9\dy21\hr13\min9}{\printim\yr1998\mo8\dy7\hr13\min12}{\version19}{\edmins46}
{\nofpages2}{\nofwords668}{\nofchars3809}{\*\company CSIRO}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1418\margr1418\margt1418\margb1418 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\linkstyles\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\qc\sb500\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright 
\b\f1\fs32\lang3081\kerning28 {DELTA Sample Data
\par }\pard\plain \qc\sb60\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22\lang3081 {\fs24 L. Watson and M. J. Dallwitz
\par }\pard\plain \s3\sb500\sa100\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \b\f1\lang3081 {References
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-340\li340\sb120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs22\lang3081 {\b Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1980). A general system for coding taxonomic descriptions. }{\i Taxon}{ }{\b 29}{, 41\endash 6.
\par }\pard \s15\fi-340\li340\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1989). Diagnostic descriptions from INTKEY and CONFOR. }{\i DELTA Newsletter}{ }{\b 3}{, 8\endash 13.
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1989). Diagnostic descriptions for groups of taxa. }{\i DELTA Newsletter}{ }{\b 4}{, 8\endash 13.
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1992). A comparison of matrix-based taxonomic identification systems with rule-based systems. In \lquote Proceedings of IFAC Workshop on Expert Systems in Agriculture\rquote , pp. 215\endash 
8. (Ed. F. L. Xiong.) (International Academic Publishers: Beijing.)
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J., Paine, T. A., and Zurcher, E. J.}{ (1993 onwards). User\rquote s Guide to the DELTA System: a General System for Processing Taxonomic Descriptions. 4th edition. http://biodiversity.uno.edu/delta/
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J., Paine, T. A., and Zurcher, E. J.}{ (1995 onwards). User\rquote s Guide to Intkey: a Program for Interactive Identification and Information Retrieval. 1st edition. http://biodiversity.uno.edu/delta/
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J., Paine, T. A., and Zurcher, E. J.}{ (1998). Interactive keys. In \lquote Information Technology, Plant Pathology and Biodiversity\rquote , pp. 201\endash 
212. (Eds P. Bridge, P. Jeffries, D. R. Morse, and P. R. Scott.) (CAB International: Wallingford.)
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J., Paine, T. A. and Zurcher, E. J.}{ (1999 onwards). User\rquote s Guide to the DELTA Editor. http://biodiversity.uno.edu/delta/
\par }{\b Dallwitz, M. J., Paine, T. A. and Zurcher, E. J.}{ (2000 onwards). Principles of interactive keys. http://biodiversity.uno.edu/delta/
\par }{\b Gibbs Russell, G. E., Watson, L., Koekemoer, M., Smook, L., Barker, N. P., Anderson, H. M., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{
 (1990). Grasses of Southern Africa. An Identification Manual with Keys, Descriptions, Classification and Automated Identification and Information Retrieval from 
Computerized Data. Memoirs of the Botanical Survey of South Africa No. 58. 437 pp. (Botanical Research Institute: Pretoria.)
\par }{\b Kellogg, E. A., and Watson, L.}{ (1987). Phylogenetic studies of a large data set. I. Bambusoideae, Andropogonodae, and Pooideae (Gramineae). }{\i Bot. Rev.}{ }{\b 59}{, 273\endash 343.
\par }{\b Watson, L.}{ (1987). Automated descriptions of grass genera. In \lquote Grass Systematics and Evolution\rquote . (Eds T. R. Soderstrom, K. W. Hilu, C. S. Campbell, and M. E. Barkworth.) pp. 343\endash 355. (Smithsonian Institution: Washington.)

\par }{\b Watson, L., Aiken, S. G., Dallwitz, M. J., Lefkovitch, L. P., and Dub\'e9, M.}{ (1986). Canadian grass genera: keys and descriptions in English and French from an automated data bank. }{\i Can. J. Bot.}{ }{\b 64}{, 53\endash 70 (with 2 microfiches).

\par }{\b Watson, L., Clifford, H. T., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1985). The classification of the Poaceae: subfamilies and supertribes. }{\i Aust. J. Bot.}{ }{\b 33}{, 433\endash 484.
\par }{\b Watson, L., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1981). An automated data bank for grass genera. }{\i Taxon}{ }{\b 30}{, 424\endash 429 + 2 microfiche.
\par }{\b Watson, L., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1985). Australian Grass Genera: Anatomy, Morphology, Keys and Classification. 2nd edition. 165 pp. (Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian National University: Canberra.)
\par }{\b Watson, L., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1988). Grass Genera of the World: 
Illustrations of Characters, Classification, Interactive Identification, Information Retrieval. With microfiches, and floppy disks for MS-DOS microcomputers. (Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian National University: Canberra.)
\par }{\b Watson, L., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{
 (1991). Grass genera of the world: an INTKEY package for automated identification and information retrieval of data including synonyms, morphology, anatomy, physiology, cytology, classification, pathogens, world and local distribution, an
d references. 2nd edition. }{\i Flora Online}{ }{\b 22}{.
\par }{\b Watson, L., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1992 onwards). Grass Genera of the World: Descriptions, Illustrations, Identification, and Information Retrieval; including Synonyms, Morphology, Anatomy, Physiology, Cytology, Cl
assification, Pathogens, World and Local Distribution, and References. http://biodiversity.uno.edu/delta/
\par }{\b Watson, L., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1994). The Grass Genera of the World. 2nd edition. 1081 pp. (CAB International: Wallingford.)
\par }{\b Watson, L., Dallwitz, M. J., Gibbs, A. J., and Pankhurst, R. J.}{ (1988). Automated taxonomic descriptions. In \lquote Prospects in Systematics\rquote , pp. 292\endash 304. (Ed. D. L. Hawksworth.) (Clarendon Press: Oxford.)
\par }{\b Watson, L., Dallwitz, M. J. and Johnston, C. R.}{ (1986). Grass genera of the world: 728 detailed descriptions from an automated database. }{\i Aust. J. Bot.}{ }{\b 34}{, 223\endash 230.
\par }{\b Watson, L., Damanakis, M., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1988). The Grass Genera of Greece: Descriptions, Classification, Keys. In Greek. (University of Crete: Heraklion.)
\par }{\b Watson, L., Gibbs Russell, G. E., and Dallwitz, M. J.}{ (1989). Grass genera of southern Africa: interactive identification and information retrieval from an automated data bank. }{\i S. Afr. J. Bot.}{ }{\b 55}{, 452\endash 463.
\par }}